The problem of describing American radio and television lies in the simple fact: there's so much of it, so many different types and so much variety. At the end of the 20th century there were over 9.000 individual radio stations operating in the United States. 
By this time their number has grown dramatically.
There are public and educational radio stations. They are owned and operated primarily by colleges and universities, by local schools and boards of education, and by various religious groups. At the same time in the late 90-s there were close to 1,200 individual television stations. 
Of these TV stations, just 300 were noncommercial. Like the non-commercial radio stations, the non-commercial television stations are supported by individual donations, grants from foundations and private organizations, funds from the city, state and federal sources.
Laws prohibit any state or the federal government from owning or operating radio and television stations (stations such as Voice of America may only broadcast oversea There is no also governmental censorship or "reviewing" of programs and content. 
There are no governmental boards or appointed groups which control any radio or television broadcasting. However, all commercial stations are required to devote a certain percentage of the broadcasting time to "public service" announcements and advertising.
These range from advertisements for the Red Cross blood drives and for dental care to programs on Alcoholics Anonymous and car safety. This broadcasting time given to public service messages is free of charge.
There is a great variety among radio and television stations. The big cities are served by large number of local radio stations. People who live in cities such as
New York, Los Angeles and Chicago have choice up to 100 AM and FM stations. The same may be told about television stations. Smaller cities have one or two local stations and larger cities ten or more. In Los Angeles, for example, there are over 18 different local television stations.
Among the great variety of local, private, non-commercial radio stations in America, there exists the National Public Radio Network (NPR). It is an association of public radio stations. NPR is known for its quality news and discussion pro-rams. Another public radio network, American Public Radio (APR) created a commentary and entertainment program for all ages called The Prairie Home Companion. The largest television networks are CBS, NBC ABC, CNN, ESPN (the all-sports cable network), MTV and PBS. The level of quality, whether in national and international news, entertainment, or education that these networks offer is excellent. Children and parents in many parts of the USA and even the world are familiar with Sesame Street, The Muppet Show or Reading a Rainbow.
America's music culture would be incomplete without blues music. Thought it was created in the early decades of the 20th century, blues music has had a huge influence on American popular music up to the present days. In fact, many key elements we hear in pop, soul, rhythm and blues, rock and roll, have their beginnings in blues music. It has never been the leader in music sales. Blues music has retained a significant presence not only in concerts and festivals throughout the United States, but in the daily life of every person on the planet, as well. One can hear the sound of the blues in unexpected places, from a television commercial to a new country or western song.

The best known blues musician today is B.B. King. His fame is well-deserved. Born in Indianola, Mississippi in 1925, he earned the nickname "B.B." ("Blues boy") while playing on radio programs in Memphis, Tennessee. From the 1940s through the 1960s, he played mostly in clubs in the South that had only black audiences. In 1948, he had a hit record with "Three A.M. Blues" and toured steadily thereafter. His fame spread as he played at blues festivals, concert halls, universities, and on television shows across the country. No other blues artist has worked harder, than B. B. King in his many years of playing over three hundred shows a year.

By the late 1960s, B. B. had perfected his famous guitar style of vibrating the fingers of his left hand as he played, and bending notes to achieve the blues notes, that are such an integral part of blue music. This singing guitar sound, coupled with his expressive tenor voice, brought King great success in 1969 with the recording of "The Thrill is Gone". The song broke through the limited sales of the blues market to achieve mainstream success and brought B.B. a Grammy award.

B.B's songs display a wide range of emotions, in addition to the sadness, so fundamental to blue music. He combines humor with a keen understanding of human nature in "Everybody Lies a Little Sometimes" and "How Blue Can You Get".

King's long and distinguished career includes many musical collaborations. Young rock musicians, in particular, appreciate his contributions to their genre. In 1988 B.B. played guitar and sang on the hit song "When Love Comes to Town" by the Irish band U2. In 2001 he recorded an award-winning record with Eric Clapton called "Riding with the King"'.

In a nutshell, King's guitar work has had a strong influence on thousands of guitar soloists to this day. B.B. King remains the blues' greatest ambassador.
Off to the airport? Don't forget the worms in a can and the Beginner's Guide to Travelling by Air, presented by Dave Barry, the officer at Miami International Airport. To help prevent unnecessary airport delays and strangling, consult the Beginner's Guide to Travelling by Air:

When to be at the airport? You should be at the airport already.

How much luggage can you carry on? You can carry one small bag and one medium bag, for a total of two bags. You may not carry on three bags by insisting to airport personnel that one of your bags is not really a bag, as if it is some kind of magical invisible fairy bag that airline personnel cannot see. You also may not carry on a suitcase the size of a sleeper sofa, apparently containing the entire wardrobe of some Broadway production. The fact that your suitcase has wheels does NOT automatically mean that you may carry it on the airplane. A piano also has wheels, but you wouldn't try to take a piano onto a plane, would you?

Prohibited objects? You may not take knives, guns spears, armored personnel carrier, flame-throwers, scary animals or sharp objects. If you know karate or kung fu, you may take your hands on board, but you must keep them clasped tightly under you armpits throughout the flight.

How to go through the security check point? Have your boarding pass and photo ID ready. Remove all your possessions from your pockets and put them in a plastic tray. Have your boarding pass and photo ID ready. Remove your belt, shoes, and pacemakers and put them in another plastic tray. Have your boarding pass and photo ID ready. Remove your laptop computer and put this in another plastic tray. FOR GOD'S SAKE HAVE YOUR BOARDING PASS AND PHOTO ID READY. Put everything — trays, bags, children under 2 — on the moving belt. Then stand in a non-terroristic manner until the security person signals to you, at which time, while holding your boarding pass and photo ID up. You should shuffle meekly forward until your pants fall to the floor.

Joking around with the security personnel? Airport security personnel are a whacky and fun-loving group who are bored to death from spending eight hours a day reminding morons to have their boarding passes and photo IDs ready. There is nothing they enjoy more, than a good joke, such as the one where you give the victim a can that says: "peanut-brittle". When he opens it, giant spring loaded worms come shooting out. That always sets off a round of hearty knee slapping at the checkpoint.

To crown it all, if you just use your common sense, waiting in long lines at the airport won't be tough on you.
Modern American movies of the past 15 years have introduced to the audiences a fresh generation of actors. Kevin Spacey, Russell Crowe, Brad Pitt, John Cusack, Matt Damon, Edward Norton, Frances McDormand, Gwyneth Paltrow and Julianne Moore have given performances as vivid as their illustrious predecessors. Unlike the iconic stars of Hollywood's classic era, who always seemed to be playing themselves — stars like Cary Grant, John Wayne, Gary Cooper, Clark Gable, Elizabeth Taylor — the current generation of American actors disappear into their roles, playing parts that differ from one movie to the next. Most of their movies are financed by Hollywood. They are a promise to the variety of American filmmaking On important reason for this eclecticism is the impact of smaller, semi-independent studios. Studios like Sony Pictures Classics and Dream Works specialize in producing or distributing avant-garde movies.

However, no studio head has been more influential or more successful in promoting innovative American, as well as foreign-language films, than Harvey Weinstein of Miramax. In many ways, Weinstein is the crucial link between the movies of the 1960s and those of the past 15 years. When Weinstein launched Miramax in 1979, he wanted to produce the sort of challenging films he had adored in his youth. This is precisely what he has done. Miramax has been responsible for bringing to the United States foreign films like The Crying Game, Cinema Paradiso, II Postino, Life is Beautiful, and Like Water for Chocolate. All of these films made money, despite the stereotype abroad that Americans will only pay to see blockbuster movies made in Hollywood.

Still, no matter how important the contributions and convictions of particular producers, directors or actors have been, what contemporary American movies have most in common with the films of the 1960s and 1970s, is a seriousness of artistic purpose combined with a desire to enthrall the audience. These twin ambitions are, by no means, uniquely American. Wherever they have come from, the greatest directors — Charlie Chaplin, Orson Welles, Alfred Hitchcock, John Ford, Howard Hawks, Federico Fellini, Francis Ford Coppola, Martin Scorsese, Steven Spielberg — they have always recognized the intimate relationship between entertainment and art.

To sum it up American films of the new generation are more open to their audience feelings, emotions, the inside world, thoughts and actions. People of the new American generation have a great opportunity to watch what is going on inside them in the movies shot outside.